# Feedback Driven Wind Simulations - AREPO
AREPO code version that was developed for the purpose of building a suite of stellar feedback driven wind simulations. The code was developed for a Master Thesis at the Heidelberg Institute of Theoretical Astrophysics under the supervision of Dr. Dylan Nelson. The original code was developed by Volker Springel et al. and can be found [here](https://gitlab.mpcdf.mpg.de/vrs/arepo). This modified version is distributed under the GNU GPL license.

The project comprises configuration options for stellar-feedback processes that were modelled based off parameterizations of the analytic wind models under Chevalier and Clegg 1985, commonly referred to as the [CC85 model](https://www.nature.com/articles/317044a0), in which mass and energy is injected into a spherical volume of radius $R_{\rm inject}$ at the center of a simulation domain at each timestep. The distribution can be done in two ways: (i) an even distribution of mass and energy of M = {\dot{M}\Delta t}/{n}$ and mean energy $E = {\dot{E}\Delta t}/n$ for $n$ cells inside $r \leq R_{\rm inject}$, or (ii) a volume-based injection scheme where cells are weighted by their volume and normalized by the combined volumes of all cells where $r \leq R_{\rm inject}$ such that $M = {\dot{M}\Delta t {V_{\rm cell}}}/{V_{\rm total}}$ and mean energy $E = {\dot{E}\Delta t {V_{\rm cell}}}/{V_{\rm total}}$. The injection process can be controlled by several key parameters, such as injection radius $R_{\rm inject}, mass load $\beta$, energy load $\alpha$, and burst duration $t_{\rm burst}. 

Additionally, the code also includes an implementation of a simple metallic radiative cooling model that reads off of publically available lookup tables of [Wiersma et al. 2009](https://local.strw.leidenuniv.nl/WSS08/). Two cooling schemes are used: (i) PIE, which is dependent on both density and temperature, and (ii) CIE, which is solely temperature dependent. 

The scripts used to analyze the thesis can be found at [here](github.com/nelson-group/raph_thesis_scripts). The thesis is available at this [link](https://github.com/nelson-group/raph_thesis_scripts/blob/main/msc_thesis.pdf). 

Avenues for future development include implementing more complex stellar feedback routines (For example, a cluster feedback model similar to the one implemented by [Schneider et al. 2018](https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.01005)), as a well a more extensive radiative cooling model. 